<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2017 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;domainObjectRenamingRule&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;domainObjectRenamingRule&gt; Element</h1>
<p>MyBatis Generator (MBG) uses the &lt;domainObjectRenamingRule&gt; element
to rename database tables before calculating the corresponding domain object
name.  This is useful when all tables have a common prefix that should be
removed before calculating the domain object name.  For example, suppose some tables
as the following:</p>
 <ul>
   <li>SYS_USER</li>
   <li>SYS_ROLE</li>
   <li>SYS_FUNCTION</li>
 </ul>
<p>It might be annoying to have the generated domain object name
 all containing the SYS prefix.  The prefix can be removed by
 specifying a renaming rule like this:</p>

<p><code>&lt;domainObjectRenamingRule searchString="^Sys" replaceString="" /&gt;</code></p>

<p>Note that, internally, MBG uses the
 <code>java.util.regex.Matcher.replaceAll</code> method
 for this function.  See the documentation for that method
 and class for examples of the regular expression language used in
 Java.</p>

<p>If specified, the renaming rule in this element will rename all the names base on the
 domain object name. Suppose a table named SYS_USER :</p>

<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Class</th>
    <th>Before using rename rule</th>
    <th>After using rename rule</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Domain Object</td>
    <td>SysUser</td>
    <td>User</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Key</td>
    <td>SysUserKey</td>
    <td>UserKey</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Blob</td>
    <td>SysUserWithBLOBs</td>
    <td>UserWithBLOBs</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Example</td>
    <td>SysUserExample</td>
    <td>UserExample</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Mapper</td>
    <td>SysUserMapper</td>
    <td>UserMapper</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>This element is an optional child
element of the <a href="table.html">&lt;table&gt;</a> element.</p>

<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>searchString</td>
    <td>This is a regular expression that defines the substring to be replaced.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>replaceString</td>
    <td>This is a string to be substituted for every occurrence of the
        search string.  If not specified, the empty string is used.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<p>None</p>

</body>
</html>
