<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;properties&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;properties&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;properties&gt; element is used to specify an external properties file
for use in the parsing of the configuration.  Any attribute in the
configuration will accept a property in the form <code>${property}</code>.
The specified properties file will be searched for a matching value and the
matching value will be substituted.  The properties file is of the normal
format for a Java properties file.</p>
<p>If there are name collisions between a property specified here and
a system property, the system property will win.</p>

<p>The &lt;properties&gt; element is a child element of the
<a href="generatorConfiguration.html">&lt;generatorConfiguration&gt;</a>
element.</p>


<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<p>One, and only one, of the following attributes is required.</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">resource</td>
    <td>The qualified name of the property file.  When specifying the resource, the
    classpath will be searched for the properties file.  So a file specified as
    <code>com/myproject/generatorConfig.properties</code> must exist in the
    <code>com.myproject</code> package.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">url</td>
    <td>A URL value to use for the property file.  This can be used to specify a property
    file in a specific place on the file system when used in a form like
    <code>file:///C:/myfolder/generatorConfig.properties</code>.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<p>None</p>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<p>None</p>

</body>
</html>
