<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2026 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Java Merge Reference</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Java Merge Reference</h1>
<p>Java code merging is a complex operation and there are tradeoffs to consider.
  The Java merger is highly configurable. This page will provide some details to help you decide
  which configuration is best for your needs.
</p>
<p>The Java merger is built using the parser from
  <a target="_blank" href="https://javaparser.org/">https://javaparser.org/</a>.
  It is possible that future changes in that product may change some of what's written here. We will endeavor
  to keep this page up to date as things change.
</p>

<p>Any configuration of the Java merger will preserve the function of the merged Java code.
  Merge configuration is primarily concerned with formatting of the code after the merge operation
</p>

<p>Configuration options for the parser include the following broad topics:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Lexical Preservation</li>
  <li>Merge Strategy</li>
  <li>Import Sorting</li>
  <li>Indentation Options</li>
</ul>

<p>We will cover these in order.</p>

<h2>Recommendations</h2>
<p>The default merge configuration is:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Lexical preservation: disabled</li>
  <li>Merge strategy: MERGE_INTO_EXISTING</li>
  <li>Import sorting: ECLIPSE</li>
  <li>Indentation: 4 spaces</li>
</ol>

<p>In most cases, the default configurtion will work. The limitations of the default configuration are:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Because lexical preservation is disabled, existing code may be reformatted.</li>
  <li>Class/Interface to record merges are not supported</li>
</ul>

<p>All strategies have the most trouble with comments. Non-JavaDoc comments will be completely lost if you use the
  "merge into new" strategy. If you wish to have the code formatting benefits of the lexical preserving printer, then
  you should be very cautious with commnets (both Javadoc and non-Javadoc comments).
</p>

<h2>Lexical Preservation</h2>
<p>Lexical preservation is a function of JavaParser whereby the formatter (or "Printer") of the merged code attempts
  to preserve the lexical structure and format of merged code. This is a highly complex process, and it does not
  always work flawlessly. But it may be useful if you have added large amounts of custom code to a generated Java file,
  and you wish to preserve the format of the custom code. A good example is when you have a method that uses stream
  operations. Suppose you have a method like the following:</p>

<pre>
public int sumOfEvens(int n) {
    return IntStream.of(0, n).filter(i -> i % 2 == 0).map(i -> i * 2).sum();
}
</pre>

<p>The lexical preserving printer will keep the format of this code. If you don't use the lexical preserving printer,
  then the code may end up like this:
</p>

<pre>
public int sumOfEvens(int n) {
    return IntStream.of(0, n)
                    .filter(i -> i % 2 == 0)
                    .map(i -> i * 2)
                    .sum();
}
</pre>

<h3>Limitations of the Lexical Preserving Printer</h3>
<ul>
  <li>If you choose lexical preservation, then any indentation option you configure will be ignored.
    The lexical preserving printer attempts to match the indentation of the original code.
  </li>
  <li>If you choose lexical preservation, then any import sorting option you configure will be ignored.
    The lexical preserving printer does not sort or change the order of imports.
  </li>
  <li>The lexical preserving printer has challenges with comments. In some cases, JavaDoc comments are not
    successfully merged.
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Merge Strategy</h2>
<p>There are two possible merge strategies:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Merge newly generated code into existing code (MERGE_INTO_EXISTING)</li>
  <li>Merge existing code into newly generated code (MERGE_INTO_NEW)</li>
</ul>

<p>The basic goal of the merger - in either case - is to preserve custom methods, fields, inner classes, etc. from
  an existing Java file. The difference is the starting point.
</p>

<p>The MERGE_INTO_EXISTING strategy works like this:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Remove all generated items from an existing file</li>
  <li>Copy generated items from a new file into the existing file</li>
  <li>Return the (merged) existing file</li>
</ol>

<p>The MERGE_INTO_NEW strategy works like this:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Copy custom items from an existing file into the new file</li>
  <li>Return the (merged) new file</li>
  <li>This strategy will NOT copy non-Javadoc comments from existing files into a new file</li>
</ol>

<p>In many cases the outcomes will be the same regardless of strategy. The differences are detailed below:</p>

<ul>
  <li>The MERGE_INTO_NEW strategy will not copy non-JavaDoc comments from existing code.</li>
  <li>The MERGE_INTO_NEW strategy will perform a Class or Interface to Record Conversion. This is because
    the merger does not change the generated type (class, interface, record, etc.) to match the existing type.
  </li>
</ul>

<h2>Import Sorting</h2>
<p>Import sorting options are ignored if you chose the lexical preserving option.</p>

<p>If you do not choose the lexical preserving option, then there are three options for soring imports.
  These options are built in to JavaParser - we do not create any custom sort options. The options are as follows:
</p>

<dl>
  <dt>ECLIPSE</dt>
  <dd>Groups of static imports first, then java.*, then javax.*, then org.*, then com.*, others</dd>
  <dt>INTELLIJ</dt>
  <dd>Groups of other imports first, the java.* and javax.*, then static imports</dd>
  <dt>DEFAULt</dt>
  <dd>All imports in the same group</dd>
</dl>

<p>All groups are sorted alphabetically.</p>

<h2>Indentation Options</h2>
<p>The indentation options (tabs vs. spaces, and size) specified in the generator configuration are also used by
  the merger – but only if you are not using the lexical preserving printer.
</p>

</body>
</html>
