<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Running MyBatis Generator From a Command Prompt</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Running MyBatis Generator From a Command Prompt</h1>
<p>MyBatis Generator (MBG) may be run directly from a command prompt.  The JAR manifest includes the
   name of the default class (<code>org.mybatis.generator.api.ShellRunner</code>)
   or you may specify it yourself.  The <code>ShellRunner</code>
   class accepts several arguments as detailed below:</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
<tr>
  <th>Argument</th>
  <th>Value</th>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-configfile <i>file_name</i> <br/>(required)</td>
  <td>Specifies the name of the configuration file.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-overwrite (optional)</td>
  <td>If specified, then existing Java files will be overwritten if an existing Java
      file if found with the same name as a generated file.  If not specified, and a
      Java file already exists with the same name as a generated file, then MBG
      will write the newly generated Java file to the proper directory with a
      unique name (e.g. MyClass.java.1, MyClass.java.2, etc.).
      <b>Important: The generator will always merge and overwrite XML files.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-verbose (optional)</td>
  <td>If specified, then progress messages will be written to the console.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-forceJavaLogging (optional)</td>
  <td>If specified, then MBG will use Java logging rather than Log4J even if
      Log4J is in the runtime classpath.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-contextids <i>context1,context2,...</i><br/>(optional)</td>
  <td>If specified, then this is a comma delimited list of contexts to use in
      the current run.  Any id specified in the list must exactly
      match the value of the <code>id</code> attribute of an
      &lt;context&gt; configuration element.  Only ids specified
      in this list will be active for this run.  If this argument
      is not specified, then all contexts will be active.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>-tables <i>table1, table2,...</i><br/>(optional)</td>
  <td>If specified, then this is a comma delimited list of tables to use in
      the current run.  Any table specified in the list must exactly
      match the fully qualified table name specified in a
      &lt;table&gt; configuration element.  Only tables specified
      in this list will be active for this run.  If this argument
      is not specified, then all tables will be active.
      Specify table names as: <br/><br/>
      <code>table</code><br/>
      <code>schema.table</code><br/>
      <code>catalog..table</code><br/>
      etc.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<p>You must create an XML configuration file to run MBG from the
   command line.  If the file is
   named "generatorConfig.xml", then any of the following command lines will run
   MBG:</p>
<pre>
   java -jar mybatis-generator-core-x.x.x.jar -configfile generatorConfig.xml
   java -jar mybatis-generator-core-x.x.x.jar -configfile generatorConfig.xml -overwrite
   java -cp mybatis-generator-core-x.x.x.jar org.mybatis.generator.api.ShellRunner -configfile generatorConfig.xml
   java -cp mybatis-generator-core-x.x.x.jar org.mybatis.generator.api.ShellRunner -configfile generatorConfig.xml -overwrite
</pre>
</body>
</html>