<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Running MyBatis Generator</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Running MyBatis Generator</h1>
<p>MyBatis Generator (MBG) can be run in the following ways:</p>
<ul>
  <li>From the
    <a href="runningFromCmdLine.html">command prompt</a>
    with an XML configuration</li>
  <li>As an <a href="runningWithAnt.html">Ant task</a> with an XML configuration</li>
  <li>As a <a href="runningWithMaven.html">Maven Plugin</a></li>
  <li>From another <a href="runningWithJava.html">Java program</a> with an XML configuration</li>
  <li>From another <a href="runningWithJava.html">Java program</a> with a Java based configuration</li>
  <li>As an <a href="runningWithEclipse.html">Eclipse Feature</a></li>  
</ul>
<p>Each method is described in detail on the linked pages.</p>
<p><b>Note:</b> there is also an Eclipse
plugin for MBG that adds extra function - namely good integration into Eclipse,
an Eclipse enabled Ant task, and support for automatic merging of
Java files.  See the
<a target="_blank" href="http://mybatis.org">MyBatis</a>
web site page for information on installing the Eclipse plugin.</p>

<p><b>Important:</b> When running outside of an IDE environment like Eclipse,
  MBG interprets the <code>targetProject</code> and
  <code>targetPackage</code> attributes in all XML configurations as follows:</p>
<ul>
  <li><code>targetProject</code> is assumed to be an existing directory structure.
    MBG will fail if this directory structure does not exist.  There is one exception to this
    rule - when MBG is running through the Maven plugin.  See the Maven plugin page
    for information about how <code>targetProject</code> is interpreted in Maven.</li>
   <li><code>targetPackage</code> will be translated to a suitable subdirectory
     structure of the <code>targetProject</code>
     directory structure.  MBG will create these subdirectories if necessary.</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>