<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; element is used to specify the properties of
the database connection required to introspect tables.  MyBatis Generator uses JDBC's
DatabaseMetaData class to discover the properties of the tables you specify
in the configuration.  One &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; element is required for
each <a href="context.html">&lt;context&gt;</a> element.</p>

<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">driverClass</td>
    <td>The fully qualified class name for the JDBC driver used to access the
        database.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">connectionURL</td>
    <td>The JDBC connection URL used to access the database.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">userId</td>
    <td>The user ID used to connect to the database.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">password</td>
    <td>The password used to connect to the database.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="property.html">&lt;property&gt;</a> (0..N)
    Note: any properties specified here will be added to the
    properties of the JDBC driver.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>This element will connect to a DB2 database configured as
MBGTEST in the DB2 client configuration utility, using
the default install location for the JDBC driver:</p>
<pre>
&lt;jdbcConnection driverClass="COM.ibm.db2.jdbc.app.DB2Driver"
    connectionURL="jdbc:db2:MBGTEST"
    userId="db2admin"
    password="db2admin"&gt;
&lt;/jdbcConnection&gt;
</pre>

</body>
</html>
