<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2018 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>MyBatis Generator Quick Start Guide</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>MyBatis Generator Quick Start Guide</h1>
<p>To get up and running quickly with MyBatis Generator (MBG), follow these steps:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Create and fill out a configuration file appropriately.
      At a minimum, you must specify:
    <ol type="a">
      <li>A <code>&lt;jdbcConnection&gt;</code> element to specify how to connect to
          the target database</li>
      <li>A <code>&lt;javaModelGenerator&gt;</code> element to specify target package
          and target project for generated Java model objects</li>
      <li>A <code>&lt;sqlMapGenerator&gt;</code> element to specify target package
          and target project for generated SQL map files</li>
      <li>(Optionally) A <code>&lt;javaClientGenerator&gt;</code> element to specify target package
           and target project for generated client interfaces and classes (you may
          omit the <code>&lt;javaClientGenerator&gt;</code> element if you don't wish to generate Java client code)</li>
      <li>At least one database <code>&lt;table&gt;</code> element</li>
    </ol>
    <p>See the <a href="configreference/xmlconfig.html">XML Configuration File Reference</a>
       page for an example of a configuration file.</p>
  </li>
  <li>Save the file in some convenient location (like \temp\generatorConfig.xml)</li>
  <li>Run MBG from the command line with a command like this:
    <pre>

      java -jar mybatis-generator-core-x.x.x.jar -configfile \temp\generatorConfig.xml -overwrite
    </pre>
    <p>This will tell MBG to run using your configuration file.  It will also tell MBG
    to overwrite any existing Java files with the same name.  If you want to save any existing
    Java files, then omit the <code>-overwrite</code> parameter.  If there is a conflict, MBG
    will save the newly generated file with a unique name (e.g. MyClass.java.1).</p>
  </li>
  <li>After running MBG, you will need to create or modify the standard MyBatis
      configuration files to make use of your newly generated code.  See the
      <a href="afterRunning.html">Tasks After Running MyBatis Generator</a> page for more
      information.</li>
</ol>
</body>
</html>
