<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;except&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;except&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;except&gt; element is used to specify an exception to a set of columns
that are ignored by a regular expression in a 
<a href="ignoreColumnsByRegex.html">&lt;ignoreColumnsByRegex&gt;</a> element.
This allows you to specify a very general
regular expression to ignore a large set of columns, then add columns back into
the set of columns used for code generation.</p>
<p>For example, if you specify a regular
expression like "<code>.*</code>" then MBG will ignore every column in a table.  
But if you add exceptions, you can add a few columns back.
This element is an optional child
element of the <a href="ignoreColumnsByRegex.html">&lt;ignoreColumnsByRegex&gt;</a> element.</p>

<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>column</td>
    <td>The column name of the exception column.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>delimitedColumnName</td>
    <td>If <code>true</code> then MBG will perform a case-sensitive exact
        match when matching against returned columns from the database.  If
        <code>false</code> (default) then the name is considered case-insensitive.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<p>None</p>

</body>
</html>
