<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2026 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;indentation&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;indentation&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;indentation&gt; element is used to define indentation specifications for generated code. By default, the generator
  produces code with the following indentation specifications:
</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Source Code Type</th>
    <th>Indentation Specifications</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Java</td>
    <td>4 Spaces per indent level</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Kotlin</td>
    <td>4 Spaces per indent level</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>XML</td>
    <td>2 Spaces per indent level</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p>This element allows you to change these defaults.
  This element is an optional child element of the <a href="context.html">&lt;context&gt;</a> element,
  and the <a href="generatorConfiguration.html">&lt;generatorConfiguration&gt;</a> element. If specified at the
  &lt;generatorConfiguration&gt; level, the specifications will apply to all contexts unless overridden by specifying a
  configuration at the &lt;context&gt; level. It is also possible to supply an indentation configuration through the
  Java API for the generator. This is primarily supported for environments like Eclipse where indentation can be
  configured in an IDE. Any configuration specified with the Java API will NOT override settings in a configuration
  file, but will only be applied if no configurations are specified through XML configuration.
</p>
<p><b>Important Note: </b>Kotlin code is always formatted with four spaces per indent level as the Kotlin language
  specification suggests.
</p>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">javaIndentType</td>
    <td>This can be either "Tabs" or "Spaces". "Spaces" is the default.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">javaIndentAmount</td>
    <td>This should be a positive integer. If "javaIndentType" is spaces, the default is "4".
      If "javaIndentType" is "Tabs", the default is "1".
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">xmlIndentType</td>
    <td>This can be either "Tabs" or "Spaces". "Spaces" is the default.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">xmlIndentAmount</td>
    <td>This should be a positive integer. If "xmlIndentType" is spaces, the default is "2".
      If "xmlIndentType" is "Tabs", the default is "1".
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<p>None.</p>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>This element specifies that we want to use tabs for spacing with both Java and XML:</p>
<pre>
&lt;indentation javaIndentType="Tabs" xmlIndentType="Tabs" /&gt;
</pre>

<p>This element specifies that we want to use two spaces for both Java and XML:</p>
<pre>
&lt;indentation javaIndentAmount="2" /&gt;
</pre>
</body>
</html>
