<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;javaClientGenerator&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;javaClientGenerator&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;javaClientGenerator&gt; element is used to define properties of the Java
client generator.  The Java client Generator builds Java interfaces and classes that allow
easy use of the generated Java model and XML map files.  For iBATIS2 target environments, these
generated objects take the form of DAO interface and implementation classes.  For MyBatis, the
generated objects take the form of mapper interfaces.
This element is a optional child element
of the <a href="context.html">&lt;context&gt;</a> element.  If you do not
specify this element, then MyBatis Generator (MBG) will not generate Java client interfaces and classes.</p>
<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">type</td>
    <td>This attribute is used to select one of the predefined Java Client generators, or
        to specify a user provided Java Client generator.
        Any user provided DAO generator must extend the class
        <code>org.mybatis.generator.codegen.AbstractJavaClientGenerator</code>
        class, and must have a public default constructor.
        <p>The attribute accepts the following values for selecting one of the
        predefined generators:</p>
        <table cellpadding="5">
          <tr>
            <td colspan="2">If the &lt;context&gt; targetRuntime is <b>MyBatis3</b>:</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">ANNOTATEDMAPPER</th>
            <td>The generated objects will be Java interfaces for the MyBatis 3.x mapper
            infrastructure.  The interfaces will be based on annotations and MyBatis 3.x SqlProviders.
            No XML mapper files will be generated.
            <p>The ANNOTATEDMAPPER requires MyBatis version 3.0.4 or higher.</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">MIXEDMAPPER</th>
            <td>The generated objects will be Java interfaces for the MyBatis 3.x mapper
            infrastructure.  The interfaces will be based on a mix of annotations and XML.
            An annotation will be used where a simple annotation will work.  This client
            will not generate and Sql Provider, so all complex dynamic SQL will be generated
            in XML.
            <p>The MIXEDMAPPER requires MyBatis version 3.0.4 or higher.</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">XMLMAPPER</th>
            <td>The generated objects will be Java interfaces for the MyBatis 3.x mapper
            infrastructure.  The interfaces will be dependent on generated XML mapper files.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td colspan="2">If the &lt;context&gt; targetRuntime is <b>MyBatis3Simple</b>:</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">ANNOTATEDMAPPER</th>
            <td>The generated objects will be Java interfaces for the MyBatis 3.x mapper
            infrastructure.  The interfaces will be based on annotations and MyBatis 3.x SqlProviders.
            No XML mapper files will be generated.
            <p>The ANNOTATEDMAPPER requires MyBatis version 3.0.4 or higher.</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">XMLMAPPER</th>
            <td>The generated objects will be Java interfaces for the MyBatis 3.x mapper
            infrastructure.  The interfaces will be dependent on generated XML mapper files.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td colspan="2">If the &lt;context&gt; targetRuntime is <b>Ibatis2Java2</b>
              or <b>Ibatis2Java5</b>:</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">IBATIS</th>
            <td>The generated objects will conform to the (deprecated) iBATIS DAO framework.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">GENERIC-CI</th>
            <td>The generated objects will rely only on the SqlMapClient.  The SqlMapClient
                will be supplied by constructor dependency injection.
                The generated objects will be in the form of DAO interfaces amd implementation classes.
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">GENERIC-SI</th>
            <td>The generated objects will rely only on the SqlMapClient.  The SqlMapClient
                will be supplied by setter dependency injection.
                The generated objects will be in the form of DAO interfaces amd implementation classes.
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">SPRING</th>
            <td>The generated objects will conform to the Spring DAO framework.</td>
          </tr>
        </table>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">targetPackage</td>
    <td>This is the package where the generated interfaces and implementation classes
        will be placed.  In
        the default generators, the property "enableSubPackages"
        controls how the actual package is calculated.  If true,
        then the calculated package will be the targetPackage plus
        sub packages for the table's catalog and schema if they exist.
        If "enableSubPackages" is false (the default) then the calculated package will be
        exactly what is specified in the targetPackage attribute.
        MBG will create folders as required for the generated
        packages.
        <p><b>Note:</b> the package for implementation classes may
        be overridden by specifying the optional <code>implementationPackage</code>
        attribute as shown below.</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">targetProject</td>
    <td>This is used to specify a target project for the
        generated interfaces and classes.  When running in the Eclipse
        environment, this specifies the project and source folder where
        the objects will be saved.
        In other environments, this value should be an existing directory
        on the local file system.  MBG will not create this directory if
        it does not exist.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">implementationPackage</td>
    <td>If specified, implementation classes will be placed in this package.
        In the default generators, the property "enableSubPackages"
        controls how the actual package is calculated.  If true,
        then the calculated package will be the implementationPackage plus
        sub packages for the table's catalog and schema if they exist.
        If "enableSubPackages" is false (the default) then the calculated package will be
        exactly what is specified in the implementationPackage attribute.
        MBG will create folders as required for the generated
        packages.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="property.html">&lt;property&gt;</a> (0..N)</li>
</ul>

<h2>Supported Properties</h2>
<p>This table lists the properties of the default SQL Map generators that can be
specified with the <a href="property.html">&lt;property&gt;</a> child element:</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Property Name</th>
    <th>Property Values</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">enableSubPackages</td>
    <td>This property is used to select whether MBG will generate different
        Java packages for the objects based on the catalog and schema of the
        introspected table.
        <p>For example, suppose a table MYTABLE in schema MYSCHMA.
        Also suppose that the targetPackage attribute is set to "com.mycompany".
        If this property is true, the generated DAO interface and class for the table
        will be placed in
        the package "com.mycompany.myschema".  If the property is false, the generated
        SQL Map will be placed in the "com.mycompany" schema.</p>
        <p><i>The default value is false.</i></p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">exampleMethodVisibility</td>
    <td>This property is used to set the visibility of the different "ByExample"
        methods - selectByExample, deleteByExample, etc.  If not specified, the
        methods will be public and will be declared in the interface.
        This property allows you to hide these methods if you only want to use them
        to implement other specialized methods.
        <table cellpadding="5">
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">public</th>
            <td><i>This is the default value</i><br/>
              The generated methods in the implementation class will be public,
              and the methods will be declared in the interface.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">private</th>
            <td>The generated methods in the implementation class will be private,
                and the methods will not be declared in the interface
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">protected</th>
            <td>The generated methods in the implementation class will be protected,
                and the methods will not be declared in the interface
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">default</th>
            <td>The generated methods in the implementation class will have default
                (package) visibility,
                and the methods will not be declared in the interface
            </td>
          </tr>
        </table>
        <p><b>Important note:</b> this property is ignored if the target runtime is
        MyBatis3.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">methodNameCalculator</td>
    <td>This property is used to select a method name calculator.  A method name
        calculator can be used to provide different names for the DAO methods.
        You can select one of the predefined values, or you can specify the
        fully qualified name of a class that implements the
        <code>org.mybatis.generator.api.DAOMethodNameCalculator</code> interface
        if neither of the supplied options are appropriate in your environment.
        <table cellpadding="5">
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">default</th>
            <td><i>This is the default value</i><br/>
              The generated methods names will be very simple ("insert",
              "updateByPrimaryKey", etc.)</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th nowrap="nowrap" valign="top">extended</th>
            <td>The generated method names will include the name of the domain object
              associated with the method ("insertWidget", "updateWidgetByPrimaryKey", etc.)
            </td>
          </tr>
        </table>
        <p><b>Important note:</b> this property is ignored if the target runtime is
        MyBatis3.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">rootInterface</td>
    <td>This property can be used to specify a super interface for all generated
      interface objects.  This value may be overridden by specifying
      the <code>rootInterface</code> property on a Table configuration.
      <p><b>Important:</b> MBG does not verify that the interface exists, or is a
       valid Java interface.</p>
      <p>If specified, the value of this property should be a fully qualified
       interface name (like com.mycompany.MyRootInterface).</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">useLegacyBuilder</td>
    <td>If true, then annotated clients will use the SqlBuilder from MyBatis to generate
        dynamic SQL.  With MyBatis 3.2 and later, that builder was deprecated in favor of
        the new SQL class.  If false, MBG will generate clients that use the new SQL builder.
        <p><i>The default value is false.</i></p></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>This element specifies that we always want to place generated interfaces and
objects
in the "'test.model" package and that we want to use subpackages based on the
table schema and catalog.  It also specifies that we want to generate
mapper interfaces that reference an XML configuration file for MyBatis3.</p>
<pre>
&lt;javaClientGenerator targetPackage="test.model"
     targetProject="\MyProject\src" type="XMLMAPPER"&gt;
  &lt;property name="enableSubPackages" value="true" /&gt;
&lt;/javaClientGenerator&gt;
</pre>

</body>
</html>
