<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2026 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;javaMergeConfiguration&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;javaMergeConfiguration&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;javaMergeConfiguration&gt; element is used to define the charcteristics of the Java merger. Please see the
  <a href="../reference/javaMergeReference.html">Java Merge Reference</a> page for detailed information
  about how the Java merger works and the different options for configuring it.
  The default Java merger has the following characteristics:
</p>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Value</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Lexical Preserving</td>
    <td>false</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Import Sort Strategy</td>
    <td>Eclipse</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Merge Strategy</td>
    <td>Merge_Into_Existing</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p>This element allows you to change these defaults.
  This element is an optional child element of the <a href="generatorConfiguration.html">&lt;generatorConfiguration&gt;</a>
  element.
</p>
<p><b>Important Note: </b>The Java merger will respect the settings of the
  <a href="indentation.html">&lt;indentation&gt;</a>configuration if the "lexicalPreserving" value is "false".
</p>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">lexicalPreserving</td>
    <td>This can be either "True" or "False". "False" is the default.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">importSortStrategy</td>
    <td>This can be either "Eclipse", "IntelliJ", or "Default". The default value is "Eclipse".
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">mergeStrategy</td>
    <td>This can be either "Merge_Into_Existing" or "Merge_Into_New". The default is "Merge_Into_Existing".
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<p>None.</p>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>This element specifies that we want to use the "IntelliJ" import sorting strategy:</p>
<pre>
&lt;javaMergeConfiguration importSortStrategy="IntelliJ" /&gt;
</pre>

</body>
</html>
