<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2016 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; Element</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; Element</h1>
<p>The &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; element is used to specify the properties of
the database connection required to introspect tables.  MyBatis Generator uses JDBC's
DatabaseMetaData class to discover the properties of the tables you specify
in the configuration.  One &lt;connectionFactory&gt; or &lt;jdbcConnection&gt; element
is required for
each <a href="context.html">&lt;context&gt;</a> element.</p>

<h2>Required Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">driverClass</td>
    <td>The fully qualified class name for the JDBC driver used to access the
        database.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">connectionURL</td>
    <td>The JDBC connection URL used to access the database.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Optional Attributes</h2>
<table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5">
  <tr>
    <th>Attribute</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">userId</td>
    <td>The user ID used to connect to the database.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">password</td>
    <td>The password used to connect to the database.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h2>Child Elements</h2>
<ul>
  <li><a href="property.html">&lt;property&gt;</a> (0..N)
    Note: any properties specified here will be added to the
    properties of the JDBC driver.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>This element will connect to a DB2 database configured as
MBGTEST in the DB2 client configuration utility, using
the default install location for the JDBC driver:</p>
<pre>
&lt;jdbcConnection driverClass="COM.ibm.db2.jdbc.app.DB2Driver"
    connectionURL="jdbc:db2:MBGTEST"
    userId="db2admin"
    password="db2admin"&gt;
&lt;/jdbcConnection&gt;
</pre>

</body>
</html>
